PLANE RADAR - ORIGINAL FIRMWARE UPGRADE

Read Upgrade-Guide-A4.pdf first. User-Manual-A4.pdf explains normal operation
and every web-portal setting. This is an ESP32-C3 / 4 MB / GC9A01 package.
It is a tester build, not an official MatixYo release. Use a trusted copy.

1. Extract the ENTIRE ZIP to a writable folder. Do not run inside the ZIP.
2. Install Python 3.11 from https://www.python.org/downloads/ if needed.
   Python 3.8 and older are not supported; the Mac launcher searches Homebrew
   and python.org installs before any older Conda Python in your shell.
3. Close serial monitors. Disconnect other ESP boards. Use a USB data cable.
4. With USB unplugged, hold the radar's range/BOOT button, connect USB, then
   release it. The display may stay blank. Do not hold BOOT on a powered radar:
   the running firmware treats a long hold as a settings reset.
5. macOS DMG: Control-click Plane Radar Installer, choose Open, then Open.
   The app copies itself to Documents/Plane Radar Installer and opens Terminal.
   macOS ZIP fallback: open Terminal in this extracted folder and run:
     sh Start-Mac.command
   Windows: double-click Start-Windows.cmd.
   Linux: the same shell launcher can be used; serial-port permissions apply.
6. Choose the USB port. The installer checks hardware, backs up ALL 4 MB,
   checks the partition layout, and asks you to type UPGRADE before writing.
7. Wait for SUCCESS. Unplug, release BOOT and reconnect normally.
8. Open http://plane-radar.local on the same Wi-Fi, or the device's router IP.
   Check the firmware version, aircraft display, range button and saved settings.

No PlatformIO, source build, merged image, or erase-all action is needed.
The launchers install a pinned esptool into a private .venv in this folder.
First launch needs internet. The serial flashing itself runs locally.

BACKUPS ARE PRIVATE: backups/<device-and-time>/original-4mb.bin and .json
contain the original firmware AND Wi-Fi credentials. Keep them together.
Do not upload them to GitHub, email them, or send them with bug reports.

RECOVERY: Re-enter BOOT mode with the same device. Re-run the launcher with:
  --restore "backups/<device-and-time>/original-4mb.bin"
Replace the placeholder with the actual saved path. The tool checks identity
and checksum, then requires RESTORE. This replaces ALL flash with that backup.
If a layout/security check stops, do not bypass it or choose erase-all.

LATER UPDATES: use the device web page's Firmware section and a newer
*-ota.bin from the custom fork. Never upload a factory/merged/backup image.
Existing Wi-Fi/location/range live in NVS, deliberately omitted from first-install
writes. The first USB migration is NOT power-fail atomic: keep power connected.
Two app slots protect against incomplete later OTA uploads, not all runtime bugs.
